W-13810159 Update work-with-code-snippets.adoc (#96)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/work-with-code-snippets.adoc

//TODO: IS THS UP-TO-DATE?
//TODO: CAN'T SEE IMAGES

To reuse code patterns in configuration files for your Mule application flows, use built-in snippets or define your own user snippets. These practices avoid the need to retype the same pattern each time you use it, which helps you work more efficiently and reduces the potential for configuration errors. 

Use snippets to provide configurations for any elements supported by the Mule DSL, such as commonly used connector operations, message processing patterns supported by other components, or multi-element configurations in the configuration XML.

Snippets are templates created in the JSON format. When you insert a snippet into the configuration XML for a Mule application, the snippet JSON transforms to XML automatically. Create user snippets in `mule-xml.json`. Code snippets are a VS Code feature. For more information, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets[Snippets in Visual Studio Code^].

//TODO: WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?? 

> Anypoint Code Builder does not filter out snippets for code that goes outside a flow, such as connector configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
The IDE inserts all user snippets within the `<flow/>` element. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration, such as a configuration for a database connection, which must be located outside of the `<flow/>` element, manually move the configuration to the same level as the `<flow/>` element. 
```

//TODO: IS THS UP-TO-DATE?
//TODO: CAN'T SEE IMAGES

To reuse code patterns in configuration files for your Mule application flows or subflows, use built-in snippets or define your own user snippets. These practices avoid the need to retype the same pattern each time you use it, which helps you work more efficiently and reduces the potential for configuration errors. 

Use snippets to provide configurations for any elements supported by the Mule DSL, such as commonly used connector operations, message processing patterns supported by other components, or multi-element configurations in the configuration XML.

Snippets are templates created in the JSON format. When you insert a snippet into the configuration XML for a Mule application flow, the snippet JSON transforms to XML automatically. Create user snippets in `mule-xml.json`. Code snippets are a VS Code feature. For more information, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets[Snippets in Visual Studio Code^].

> //TODO: WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?? 

Author: ```suggestion
```

//TODO: CAN'T SEE IMAGES

To reuse code patterns in configuration files for your Mule application flows  or subflows, use built-in snippets or define your own user snippets. These practices avoid the need to retype the same pattern each time you use it, which helps you work more efficiently and reduces the potential for configuration errors. For information about flows and subflows, see xref:/index.adoc#get-familiar-with-the-basics[Get Familiar with the Basics].

Use snippets to provide configurations for any elements supported by the Mule DSL, such as commonly used connector operations, message processing patterns supported by Core components, or multi-element configurations in the configuration XML.

Snippets are templates created in the JSON format. When you insert a snippet into the configuration XML for a Mule application flow or subflow, the snippet JSON transforms to XML automatically. Create user snippets in `mule-xml.json`. Code snippets are a VS Code feature. For more information, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets[Snippets in Visual Studio Code^].

//TODO: IS THIS A WORKAROUND FOR NOW OR IS THIS JUST THE WAY IT'S GONNA BE FOREVER?

> The IDE inserts all user snippets into the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>` element that you are working on. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration that must reside at the same level as the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>`, and not within either element, manually move the XML to the correct location. For example, configurations for connections to a database must reside outside of the `<flow/>` element. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Reviewer: It is the UI, and not the IDE the one inserting snippets. But users can use the same snippets in the XML directly. Maybe we should encourage them to insert them via the XML.

Author: DONE: I'll clarify.

> The IDE inserts all user snippets into the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>` element that you are working on. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration that must reside at the same level as the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>`, and not within either element, manually move the XML to the correct location. For example, configurations for connections to a database must reside outside of the `<flow/>` element. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
From the UI, Anypoint Code Builder inserts all user snippets into the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>` element that you are working on. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration that must reside at the same level as the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>`, and not within either element, use auto-complete in the configuration XML to find and insert the snippet. Snippets are identified by their name and a two-dimensional box icon. For example, configurations for connections to a database must reside outside of the `<flow/>` element. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

//TODO: ADD EXAMPLE
```

//TODO: CAN'T SEE IMAGES

To reuse code patterns in configuration files for your Mule application flows  or subflows, use built-in snippets or define your own user snippets. These practices avoid the need to retype the same pattern each time you use it, which helps you work more efficiently and reduces the potential for configuration errors. For information about flows and subflows, see xref:/index.adoc#get-familiar-with-the-basics[Get Familiar with the Basics].

Use snippets to provide configurations for any elements supported by the Mule DSL, such as commonly used connector operations, message processing patterns supported by Core components, or multi-element configurations in the configuration XML.

Snippets are templates created in the JSON format. When you insert a snippet into the configuration XML for a Mule application flow or subflow, the snippet JSON transforms to XML automatically. Create user snippets in `mule-xml.json`. Code snippets are a VS Code feature. For more information, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets[Snippets in Visual Studio Code^].

//TODO: IS THIS A WORKAROUND FOR NOW OR IS THIS JUST THE WAY IT'S GONNA BE FOREVER?

> From the UI, Anypoint Code Builder inserts all user snippets into the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>` element that you are working on. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration that must reside at the same level as the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>`, and not within either element, use auto-complete in the configuration XML to find and insert the snippet. Snippets are identified by their name and a two-dimensional box icon. For example, configurations for connections to a database must reside outside of the `<flow/>` element. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
From the UI, Anypoint Code Builder inserts all user snippets into the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>` element that you are working on. If you create and insert a user snippet for a global configuration that must reside at the same level as the `<flow/>` or `<sub-flow/>`, and not within either element, use <<autocomplete, auto-complete in the configuration XML>> to find and insert the snippet. Snippets are identified by their name and a two-dimensional box icon. For example, configurations for connections to a database must reside outside of the `<flow/>` element. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].
```

> //TODO: ADD EXAMPLE

Author: ```suggestion
```

            "<db:select config-ref=\"${1:Database_Config}\" doc:name=\"${2:Select Contact from DB}\" doc:id=\"$RANDOM_HEX\" >",
            "<db:sql>",
            "<![CDATA[SELECT * FROM Contacts WHERE FirstName = :firstname AND LastName = :lastname]]>",
            "</db:sql>",
            "<db:input-parameters>",
              "<![CDATA[#[\\{",
              "firstname: vars.firstnameVar,",
              "lastname: vars.lastnameVar",
              "\\}]]]>",
            "</db:input-parameters>",
            "</db:select>$0"
		],
		"description": "Pull first and last name from database"
	 }
}
--
<1> A snippet for a Database Connector select operation that retrieves `firstName` and `lastName` values from a Database.
+
If you insert the snippet for the database example into your configuration XML, the next step is to provide the value of `config-ref=""`. To get the value, it is necessary to configure a global `<db:config/>` element at outside of the `<flow/>`. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Like built-in snippets, user snippets are also available for insertion from the configuration XML. See <<autocomplete>>. 

[[autocomplete]]

> == Use Auto-Complete To Find and Insert Snippets into a Flow or Subflow

Reviewer: I would remove the `into a Flow or Subflow` You can even define flow and subflows are your snippets

Author: DONE

. Press (Ctrl+shift or Cmd+shift) from the configuration XML to open the auto-complete menu

. Insert the snippet into your flow or subflow:

* For a built-in snippet, search for and select the name of the built-in snippet. For example:
+
image::acb-auto-complete-options.png["Auto-completion options for the Choice router"]
+
Compare the built-in Choice snippet configuration to the basic XML configuration for this component:
+
[source,xml]
--
<!-- (1) -->
<choice doc:name="Choice" doc:id="vcfaqr" >
  <when expression='#[]' doc:name="When" >
  </when>
  <otherwise doc:name="Otherwise" >
  </otherwise>
</choice>
<!-- (2) -->
<choice doc:name="Choice" doc:id="hhdehz" >
--
+
<1> XML for the built-in Choice snippet is `flow:choice` in the auto-complete list. The icon for snippets in this menu is a one-dimensional square. 
<2> XML for the minimally configured Choice component, which is also available by navigating to *Core Processors* > *Flow Control* > *Choice* from the UI canvas. The icon for this XML is a three-dimensional square. 

* For a user snippet, search for and select the name of the user snippet (as configured in `mule-xml.json`). 

> //TODO: BIG TODO IS HOW TO CREATE THE SNIPPET. EVEN IF WE POINT OUT TO A SNIPPET GENERATOR (IF WE CAN), PEOPLE STILL NEED TO KNOW THE CONFIG XML, BUT THAT WON'T COME FOR COMPONENTS UNTIL GA. ALSO NEED TO COORDINATE WITH CONNECTOR TEAM ABOUT CONNECTOR XML THAT'S STUDIO-FREE.

Reviewer: What do we mean by STUDIO CONNECTOR XML? there is nothing studio specific in the XML

Author: @pablocabrera85 This is hidden comment, a note to myself. We have pages in our connector and Mule docs that use Studio UI field names and show configurations through the Studio UI. We need to resolve this by having content that is Studio-free. ACB is XML-only and does not use those UI fields to configure stuff. So we can't reference those docs.

Author: In other words, we need docs on the XML configs that do not show any Studio-specific content.

            "<db:select config-ref=\"${1:Database_Config}\" doc:name=\"${2:Select Contact from DB}\" doc:id=\"$RANDOM_HEX\" >",
            "<db:sql>",
            "<![CDATA[SELECT * FROM Contacts WHERE FirstName = :firstname AND LastName = :lastname]]>",
            "</db:sql>",
            "<db:input-parameters>",
              "<![CDATA[#[\\{",
              "firstname: vars.firstnameVar,",
              "lastname: vars.lastnameVar",
              "\\}]]]>",
            "</db:input-parameters>",
            "</db:select>$0"
		],
		"description": "Pull first and last name from database"
	 }
}
--
<1> A snippet for a Database Connector select operation that retrieves `firstName` and `lastName` values from a Database.
+
If you insert the snippet for the database example into your configuration XML, the next step is to provide the value of `config-ref=""`. To get the value, it is necessary to configure a global `<db:config/>` element at outside of the `<flow/>`. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Like built-in snippets, user snippets are also available for insertion from the configuration XML. See <<autocomplete>>. 

[[autocomplete]]

> == Use Auto-Complete To Find and Insert Snippets into a Flow or Subflow

Author: ```suggestion
== Use Auto-Complete To Find and Insert Snippets into the Configuration XML
```

	 	],
	 	"description": "Log output to console"
	 },
        "Select first and last name from database": { //<!--<1>-->
          "prefix": "select-name-from-db",
          "body": [
            "<db:select config-ref=\"${1:Database_Config}\" doc:name=\"${2:Select Contact from DB}\" doc:id=\"$RANDOM_HEX\" >",
            "<db:sql>",
            "<![CDATA[SELECT * FROM Contacts WHERE FirstName = :firstname AND LastName = :lastname]]>",
            "</db:sql>",
            "<db:input-parameters>",
              "<![CDATA[#[\\{",
              "firstname: vars.firstnameVar,",
              "lastname: vars.lastnameVar",
              "\\}]]]>",
            "</db:input-parameters>",
            "</db:select>$0"
		],
		"description": "Pull first and last name from database"
	 }
}
--
<1> A snippet for a Database Connector select operation that retrieves `firstName` and `lastName` values from a Database.
+

> If you insert the snippet the database example into your configuration XML, the next step is to provide the value of `config-ref=""`. To get the value, it is necessary to configure a global `<db:config/>` element at outside of the `<flow/>`. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
If you insert the snippet for the database example into your configuration XML, the next step is to provide the value of `config-ref=""`. To get the value, it is necessary to configure a global `<db:config/>` element at outside of the `<flow/>`. To learn more about this configuration, see xref:connect-to-a-db.adoc[].
```
